---
title: 02. Ex. Basic Prob. 2
draft: false
---
{{<toc>}}

# Exercise 1
A bin contains 5 defective (that immediately fail when put in use), 10 partially defective (that fail after a couple of hours of use), and 25 acceptable transistors. A transistor is chosen at random from the bin and put into use. If it does not immediately fail, what is the probability it is acceptable?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}

- Total number of transistors does not immediately fail: $10 + 25 = 40$.
- Prob of choosing an acceptable transistor: $P(A) = \frac{25}{35} = \frac{5}{7}$.

{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 2
a) Tossing a coin n times, what's the prob of getting at least 1 head?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Prob of getting no heads: $P(H) = \frac{1}{2^n}$
- Prob of getting at least 1 head: $P(H) = 1 - \frac{1}{2^n}$
{{< /expand >}}

b) Tossing a coin 4 times, what's the prob of getting at least 1 heads?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $\Omega = 2^4 = 16$.
- The prob of getting 0 heads is 1: $\text{\\{}T, T, T, T\text{\\}}$.
- $P(H) = \frac{15}{16}$.
{{< /expand >}}

c) Rolling a dice 4 times, what is the probability of getting at least one 6?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Consider rolling once: $\Omega = 6$. The prob of not getting a 6 is 5/6.
- 4 rolls are independent, so the prob of not getting a 6 is $(\frac{5}{6})^4$.
- The prob of getting at least one 6 is $1 - (\frac{5}{6})^4 = \frac{671}{1296}$.
{{< /expand >}}

d) How many attempts/tries are need to get the probability of getting at least one 6 of 0.99?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $P(H) = 1 - (\frac{5}{6})^n = 0.99$.
- $\Leftrightarrow (\frac{5}{6})^n = 0.01$.
- $\Leftrightarrow n = log_\frac{5}{6}0.01 \approx 25.26$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 3
A woman travels to work by bicycle $70%$ of the time and by scooter $30%$ of the time. If she uses her bicycle she is late 3% of the time but if she uses her scooter she is late only 2% of the time.

a) Find the probability that she is late for work on any given day.

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $P(\text{scooter late}) = \frac{30}{100} \times \frac{2}{100} = \frac{1}{150}$.
- $P(\text{bicycle late}) = \frac{70}{100} \times \frac{3}{100} = \frac{1}{100}$.
- $P(\text{late}) = P(\text{scooter late}) + P(\text{bicycle late}) = \frac{1}{150} + \frac{1}{100} = \frac{11}{150}$.
{{< /expand >}}

b) Given that the woman expects not to be late on approximately 223 days in a year, find the number of days in a year on which she works.

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $P(\text{not late}) = 1 - P(\text{late}) = 1 - \frac{11}{150} = \frac{139}{150}$.
- $P(\text{not late}) \approx 0.92$.
- Number of days in a year: $223 \times \frac{1}{0.92} \approx 243$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 4
Using a biased coin to make an unbiased decision. Minh and Nam want to choose between the Kpop music and US music by tossing a fair coin. Unfortunately, the only available coin is biased (about the bias is known by 40% and 60%). How can they use the biased coin to make a decision so that either option (Kpop music or US music) is equally likely to be chosen?

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Assume that the coin is biased to heads.
- By tossing it twice, we can eliminate the bias of the coin.
  - $P(\text{\\{}H, H\text{\\}}) = \frac{60}{100} \times \frac{60}{100} = \frac{36}{100}$.
  - $P(\text{\\{}T, T\text{\\}}) = \frac{40}{100} \times \frac{40}{100} = \frac{16}{100}$.
  - $P(\text{\\{}H, T\text{\\}}) = \frac{60}{100} \times \frac{40}{100} = \frac{24}{100}$.
  - $P(\text{\\{}T, H\text{\\}}) = \frac{40}{100} \times \frac{60}{100} = \frac{24}{100}$.

$\to P(\text{\\{}H, H\text{\\}}) = P(\text{\\{}T, T\text{\\}})$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 5
It is required to put 3-math, 2-history and 4-bio books placed on the shelf. Find the ways in cases:

a) no restriction on the order of books.
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $9! = 362880$.
{{< /expand >}}

b) all subjects must stay together.
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- \# of ways to put:
  - 3 math books: $3! = 6$.
  - 2 history books: $2! = 2$.
  - 4 bio books: $4! = 24$.
  - 3 groups of books: $3!$.
- $\Omega = (6+2+24) \times 6 = 192$.
{{< /expand >}}

c) only bio must stay together.
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- \# of ways to put 4 bio books: $4! = 24$.
- Consider 4 bio books as one group, the \# of ways to put 3 math + 2 history + 1 group of bio books: $3! \times 2! \times 1 = 12$.
- \# of ways to put if bio books are together: $24 \times 12 = 288$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 6
In how many ways can 6 people be seated at a round table if

a) they can sit in any order?
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Anchor 1 person, the \# of ways to seat the remaining 5 people: $5! = 120$.
{{< /expand >}}

b) 2 people cannot sit next to each other?
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Ignore 2 people, the \# of ways to seat the remaining 4 people: $4! = 24$.
- Consider 2 people cannot sit together, anchor 1 person, the other one can sit in 3 positions.

$\to \Omega = 24 \times 3 = 72$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 7
Draw top 7 cards from a deck of 52 cards well-shuffled. Find the probability of getting:

a) The 7 cards include 3 Aces
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Ways to choose 3 Ace: $C\binom{3}{4}$
- Ways to choose 4 other cards (exclude the last Ace): $C\binom{4}{48}$
- Prob of choosing 7 cards containing 3 Ace: $P(\text{3 Ace}) = \frac{C\binom{3}{4} \times C\binom{4}{48}}{C\binom{7}{52}} = \frac{4 \times 48}{7 \times 52} = \frac{1}{13}$.
{{< /expand >}}

b) The 7 cards include 2 Kings
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Ways to choose 2 King: $C\binom{2}{4}$
- Ways to choose 5 other cards (exclude 2 other Kings): $C\binom{5}{48}$
- Prob of choosing 7 cards containing 2 King: $P(\text{2 King}) = \frac{C\binom{2}{4} \times C\binom{5}{48}}{C\binom{7}{52}} = \frac{6 \times 48}{7 \times 52} = \frac{2}{13}$.
{{< /expand >}}

c) The 7 cards include 3 Aces or 2 Kings or both
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- Prob of choosing 7 cards containing 3 Ace: $P(\text{3 Ace}) = \frac{4 \times 48}{7 \times 52} = \frac{1}{13}$.
- Prob of choosing 7 cards containing 2 King: $P(\text{2 King}) = \frac{6 \times 48}{7 \times 52} = \frac{2}{13}$.
- Prob of choosing 7 cards containing 3 Ace and 2 King: $P(\text{3 Ace and 2 King}) = \frac{C\binom{3}{4} \times C\binom{2}{4} \times C\binom{2}{48}}{C\binom{7}{52}} = \frac{4 \times 6 \times 48}{7 \times 52} = \frac{1}{13}$.
{{< /expand >}}

# Exercise 8
- Box A: 3 red, 2 blue marbles.
- Box B: 2 red, 8 blue marbles.

Toss a coin, if head then choose a marble from box A, else otherwise.

a) Find the probability of choosing a red marble.

{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $P(\text{red from A}) = \frac{3}{5}$.
- $P(\text{red from B}) = \frac{2}{10}$.
- $P(\text{red}) = P(\text{red from A}) \times P(\text{head}) + P(\text{red from B}) \times P(\text{tail}) = \frac{3}{5} \times \frac{1}{2} + \frac{2}{10} \times \frac{1}{2} = \frac{7}{20}$.
{{< /expand >}}

b) Find the probability of the coin is head, given that the marble is red.
{{< expand "Solution" >}}
- $P(\text{red from I}) = 0.6 \times 0.5$.
- $P(\text{red}) = 0.6 \times 0.5 + 0.2 \times 0.5$.
- $P(\text{box I}) = \frac{P(\text{red from I})}{P(\text{red})} = \frac{0.3}{0.4} = \frac{3}{4}$.
{{< /expand >}}