---
title: 10. Review
draft: false
---

{{<toc>}}

# Exercise 1
Find the number of different arrangements of the letters in the word "PERSEVERE" if

a. no 2 "E"s can be next to each other\
b. each arrangement must start and end with "S" and "P" with no 2 "E" together

# Exercise 2
7 people, 4 women, 3 men, are forming a queue. Find how many different queues can be formed if

a. All 4 women stand next to each other.\
b. No 2 men stand next to each other.

# Exercise 3
A fair 6-sided dice is thrown twice. Events A and B are defined as follows:
- A: The sum of the numbers on the 2 dice is 4.
- B: The first score is 2 or 5.

Are A and B independent? Justify your answer.

# Exercise 4
2 fair 6-sided dice are thrown. Events A and B are defined as follows:
- A: The sum of the numbers is even.
- B: The sum of the numbers either < 6 or a multiple of 4 or both.

Are A and B independent? Justify your answer.

# Exercise 5
Alice has <c-red> 7 </c-red> sweets in a tin: 6 coffee + 1 chocolate. She <c-red> picks 1 </c-red> sweet at random, her friend <c-red> add 3 </c-red> chocolates to the tin, then Alice picks another sweet at random.

a. Draw a tree diagram to show the possible outcomes.\
b. Let X be the number of coffee sweets picked by Alice. Find PMF of X.\
c. Find the mean of X.\
d. Find the probability that the first sweet is chocolate, given that the second sweet is coffee.

# Exercise 6
Every year a freelance artist draws a large number of paintings and submits them for an art competition. Every painting has <c-red> 0.952 </c-red> chance of being judged as "excellent".

a. Using suitable approximations, find the probability that more than 100 out of 110 paintings are judged as "excellent".\
b. more than 78 out of 80 paintings are judged as "excellent".

# Exercise 7
What's the shortest time within which at least 75% of reported lift breakdowns can be dealt with? Given that the time taken to deal with a breakdown follows a normal distribution with a mean of 65 minutes and a standard deviation of 60 minutes.

# Exercise 8
The masses of honeydews are normally distributed with mean $\mu$ kg and standard deviation <c-red> 2 kg</c-red>. The masses of rock melons are normally distributed with mean <c-red> 1.5 kg </c-red> and standard deviation <c-red> 3 kg</c-red>.

a. Given that $51%$ o the honeydews weigh less than $1.05kg$, show that $\mu = 1$.\
b. Find the probability that:
- 2 honeydews are more than twice as heavy as a rock melon.
- The difference between the mass of a honeydew and a rock melon is less than $0.5kg$.\
c. Honeydews are sold at $\text{\textdollar}2$ per kg and rock melons at $\text{\textdollar}3$ per kg. Find the probability that 2 honeydews and 1 rock melon are sold for more than $\text{\textdollar}10$.