---
title: '02. Charateristics of Radio Environment'
draft: false
---

# 1.1
| City      | $n_1$     | $n_2$ | $d_b(m)$ |
|-----------|-----------|-------|----------|
| London    | 1.7 - 2.1 | 2-7   | 200-300  |
| Melbourne | 1.5 - 2.5 | 3-5   | 150      |
| Orlando   | 1.3       | 3.5   | 90       |

Plot $P_{R,dB} - P_{T,dB}$ for Orlando as a function of distance $d$, in meters, with $0 < d < 200m$.
- Assume transmitter and receiver antenna gains are both 1.
- Average power effect is experienced, two-slope model is used.

{{<hint type="note" title="Solution">}}
- We have this average receive power formular:
  $$\overline{P_R} \triangleq g(d) \cdot P_T \cdot G_T \cdot G_R$$
- Convert to dB, replace $G_T$ and $G_R$ with 1:
  $$\overline{P_{R,dB}} = 10 \log_{10} g(d) + 10 \log_{10} P_T$$
- We also have
  $$g(d) \triangleq d^{-n_1} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b})^{-n_2}$$
- Plug in $n_1$, $n_2$, $d_b$ and $P_T$:
  $$\begin{aligned}
  \overline{P_{R,dB}} &= 10 \log_{10} (d^{-n_1} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b})^{-n_2}) + 10 \log_{10} P_T \\\
  P_{R,dB} - P_{T,dB} &= 10 \log_{10} (d^{-n_1} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b})^{-n_2}) \\\
  &= 10 \log_{10} d^{-n_1} + 10 \log_{10} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b})^{-n_2} \\\
  &= - n_1 \cdot 10 \log_{10} d - n_2 \cdot 10 \log_{10} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b}) \\\
  &= - 13 \log_{10} d - 35 \log_{10} (1 + \frac{d}{d_b}) \\\
  &= - 13 \log_{10}d - 35 \log_{10}(1+\frac{d}{90}) \\\
  &= - 13 \log_{10}d - 35 \log_{10}(\frac{90+d}{90}) \\\
  &= - 13 \log_{10}d - 35 \log_{10}(90+d) + 35 \log_{10}90
  \end{aligned}$$
{{</hint>}}

# 1.2
The average power received at mobiles 100 m from a base station is 1 mW. Log-normal, shadow, fading is experienced at that distance. The log-normal standard deviation $\sigma$ is 6dB.
- What is the probability that the received power at a mobile at that distance from the base station will exceed 1 mW? Be less than 1 mW?
- An acceptable received signal is 10 mw or higher. What is the probability that a mobile will have an acceptable signal? Repeat for $\sigma$ = 10dB. Repeat both cases for an acceptable received signal of 6 mW.
- Repeat for $\phi = 10\text{dB}$.
- Repeat both cases for an acceptable received signal of $6\text{mW}$.

Note: The integral of a Gaussian function is an error function

# 2.1
- Determine the output signal of below system:

$$x(t) = e^t[u(t-1)-u(t-3)]$$
$$h(t) = \delta(t-1)$$

- Determine the transfer function of the system
- Note: $u(t)$ is a rectangular function

{{<hint type="note" title="Solution">}}
$\begin{aligned}
x(t) &= e^t \ast [u(t-1)-u(t-3)] \\\
x(t) &= \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} x(\tau)\delta(t-\tau) d\tau \\\
&= x(t) \ast \delta(t) \\\
&= e^t \ast [u(t-1)-u(t-3) \ast \delta(t)]
\end{aligned}$

$\begin{aligned}
y(t) &= x(t) \ast h(t) \\\
&=x(t) \ast \delta(t-1) \\\
&=e^t \ast x_1(t) \ast \delta(t-1) \\\
&=e^t \ast x_1(t-1)
\end{aligned}$

- Why we can replace $x_1(t) \ast \delta(t-1)$ with $x_1(t-1)$?

$$\begin{aligned}
x_1 \ast \delta(t-1) &= \int_{-\infty}^{\infty} x_1(\tau)\delta(t-1-\tau) d\tau \\\
&= x_1(t-1)
\end{aligned}$$

- Since $x(t) = e^t \ast [u(t-1)-u(t-3)]$\
  $\to y(t) = e^t \ast [u(t-2)-u(t-4)]$$
{{</hint>}}

# 3.1
Consider several a delay spread of
- 0.5 milisecond
- 1 milisecond
- 6 milisecond

Determine whether individual multipath rays are resolvable for the two transmission bandwidths:
- 1.25 MHz used in IS-95 and CDMA2000.
- 5 MHz used in WCDMA.

Note: relation between bandwidth and symbol interval:
- $B.T = 1$ (Fourier analysis)

# 3.2
Indicate the condition for flat fading for each of the following data rates:
- 8 kbps
- 40 kbps
- 100 kbps
- 6 Mbps

Indicate which, if any, radio environments would result in flat fading for each of these data rates.