---
title: "04. Modular Techniques"
draft: false
---

# Problem 1
Consider a communication system operating at below bandwidth and using following
parameters.
-  Let the transmission bandwidth be 1 MHz. Say a rolloff factor of r = 0.25 is used.
Determine:
    - Achivable rate of data traffic
    -  Delay spread that no ISI occurs
- Repeat for following cases:
    - Let OFDM with N = 16 equally spaced carriers be used.
    - If 16-QAM is now utilized for the OFDM system.

# Problem 2
Consider a communication system operating at transmission bandwidth of 1MHz, rolloff
factor of $r = 0.25$. It is desired to transmit at a 4.8 Mbps data rate, but without inter-symbol
interference for delay spreads up to $25 µs$. QAM and OFDM are used. Select appropriate
modulation technique and number of subcarriers to accommodate the maximum delay spread
required above.

# Problem 3
A transmission bandwidth of 2MHz is available. Nyquist rolloff shaping is used in transmitting data.

- Find the bit rates that may be transmitted over this channel using PSK for rolloff factors of 0.2, 0.25, and 0.5.
- Nyquist roll off shaping of 0.25 is used. It is desired to transmit at a rate of 6.4Mbps over this channel. What modulation techniques should be used to support this data rate?

# Problem 4
| Successive binary pairs | $a_i$ | $b_i$ |
|-------------------------|---------|-----|
| 00                      | -1      | -1  |
| 01                      | -1      | +1  |
| 10                      | +1      | -1  |
| 11                      | +1      | +1  |

Choose an input sequence of ten or more binary digits to be applied to a QPSK modulator. Map them to the five appropriate QPSK signal pairs using above Table. Let the carrier frequency be some multiple of $1/T$.
- Sketch the corresponding output QPSK signals.
- Note the times at which π radian and π/2 radian phase shifts occur. Correlate these with the input bit pairs.